I said, I want to live in the back of my pickup truck.
And I have a camper, and I've got a little bed in
there, and I've got a little cooler that I put ice
in. And I said, you know, I can shower and shave at
the handball courts because I was playing
handball every chance I got. And he said, well, you
can't be in B1. He says, if you're not in the
barracks, you can't be in B1. So he says, I'll go
talk to Colonel Baker, but you'll have to go into
the H1. I said, sir, that's a married company. He
says, well, you'll be the only bachelor in the
married company then. And he says, the only other
thing you've got to do is you've got to go get
written permission from the campus security.
Because when I go to Colonel Baker, I want it to be
OK. And so I went, and the campus security was in the
OYMCA, down in the basement to the right. And there
was three people in the campus security. You know,
I mean, there may have been four or five, but there
was never more than three policemen there. And I
went in there and I said, look, this is, and I laid
out my plan. Well, I know they knew that this was not
going to last. There's no way, you know, anybody
would stay in a pickup truck forever in the camper.
But, you know, they checked, and I had never had
one, no parking tickets. I had not had one incident
on the campus. And I told them I was working with my
advisor, and I was in the Corps and everything. So
he wrote out a handwritten little note, and I took
it up to Captain Simmons. And he said, where do you
want to stay? Where are you going to park this
thing? And I said, well, I'd like to park it in the
same place. And they said, well, and so we talked
about it. And I don't know if he suggested or I
suggested, but there was an oak tree behind Guyon
Hall that provided good shade. And so I kind of, for
some reason, would always get that parking lot,
parking spot. But I parked in Guyon Hall. I
showered and shaved when I was here at the handball
courts. And I studied at the library. And you were
taking a full course load. Oh, yeah. And I was in the
core. And nobody came by and rattled the pickup?
No, the only thing that would... It was kind of
interesting. One January, maybe in January of 67,
I don't know, I had... I usually face the truck to
the north, but that, for some reason, I faced the
truck to the south. I guess I had a different
parking space. And an ice storm came up, and it was a
world-class ice storm. And my pickup, to get out of
my camper, above the pickup, you just open the top,
and then you had to open that, and you jumped out. I
mean, it didn't have a door. It just had an opening.
Well, it was iced shut. And I'm sitting there
kicking on it, you know, trying to get out because I
got to go to class. And somebody came by and said,
there's somebody in the back of that truck. And I
hollered at them. And so they got something hard
and chipped the ice and I got out. And then
sometimes the parking lot would be filling. And
what would happen, I'd go to the farm and I'd work
especially in the spring, till, you know, dark, 8
or 9 o'clock, and then I'd come, and instead of
spending the night, if I had an 8 o'clock class, and
I'd come back, and it'd be 10 or 11 o'clock by the
time I'd get in, I'd go right to bed, and then I'd set
the alarm. Well, people would hear the alarm go off
sometime, and I'd hear them say, I heard an alarm,
and then, you know, you would meet. And my bed, you
couldn't sit up in my bed. you had to roll out of bed.
If you sat up, you hit your head. And then, you know,
you were on your knees, and so I had a cushion in
there with a carpet. And then, you know, I kept my
uniforms in there and put my Aggie boots on every
day and pulled them off by myself and shined them.
Now, you ate at Dunkin'? Well, no. Once I stopped
rooming board, I ate at the Kettle. which was on
Highway 6, which is now a donut shop across from
Luby's. But it was called The Kettle, and I ate all
my meals there, and they had a blackboard off to the
side, and everybody knew that that's where I ate,
and that was my message board. People would come in
and write me a message and say, because we didn't
have cell phones, I didn't have a phone, I didn't
have a phone at the ranch, and they could wait
around, they knew where I parked, but they would
write me notes. And so when I ate, I ate at the
kettle, and I knew everybody in there, and that was
my message board for a year and a half. Now, as we're
heading toward commencement now, how important
was final review as a junior? And then what was it
like for a senior? Well. What was it like to wear
those senior boots officially for the first time?
Yeah, I, you know, that's a good question. and let
me see, that would have been in 67, that would have
been in May of 67. Let me see if I can find an entry
in,
yeah, it had been, or May of 66, it had been May of 66.
The year before you graduated. Yeah, and then I,
well, see, because I graduated in January of 68,
but I was class of 67, so I'll, It would have been May
of 66. I
guess. Let's see if I even wrote anything down. May
3rd. Juniors are on rotation now to morning chow,
but I intend to... Jumped.
Woke up at daylight. I always seem to wake up at
daylight. Uh...
Economics 204, still, today's another good day.
Should have been a Saturday. Yeah, okay, Saturday
the 21st. No, I went to a swimming meet on Saturday
the 21st. My little sister was an Olympic swimmer,
and she was an unbelievable swimmer, and when
swimming meets were close by, I'd go watch her
swim. She was the finest athlete. When would...
very hot saturday the 28th of may final review
saturday 28th of may cloudy and very hot woke up at
six and ronnie thomas by then was my roommate and he
was on the golf team and i went to the kettle and ate
breakfast
took bull tech's quiz at seven it was very long and
tedious but not hard went over to gary moon's to
play guitars till noon and then took him out to eat
at Kittle. Came back and got ready for final
review. Folks arrived late but Everything is
okay. Daddy took pictures.
It was real hot, but it's great to be a senior. My
boots fit and looked fabulous. We went out to eat
after the review, and the folks went to the farm and
took Jeannie. I'm here at the dorm. Just took a
shower. Final
review, 1966. Summer camp. flight training,
graduation, helicopter pilot. For some reason, I
decided to put all that at the end, but I didn't go
into too much about that final review. All right,
now then, what was it like as a senior? How did you
feel in that final review and commencement? Yeah,
well, let me, the commencement, because I
graduated Oh, that's right. See, in January of 68,
it was not the same. It was because I knew I had
another semester of school. But graduation and
commissioning ceremony, Saturday the 20th of
January of 68.
I parked my truck on the street next to the handball
court so I would have a good parking place. At 4
a.m., the street cleaner woke me up. And it was much
like Christmas Day when I was a child. I could not go
back to sleep, even though I had only been asleep
for three hours. At six, I went to the dorm,
showered and dressed in Aggie senior uniform. At
eight, I filled out papers and was sworn in by
Colonel Blake. At 10 o'clock graduation began and
lasted until noon, General Rutter talked too
long. And one of the things, I've given lots and
lots of speeches. My speeches are all short. And I
gave the commissioning speech here in May last
year, and it was nine minutes long. I said, look,
just tell me how long it is. And it was nine minutes.
And I got the Board of Regents. I got six letters
from the Board of Regents. They said they'd never
had a nine-minute speech before. And I said, you
know, you don't have to have a good speech if it's
short. I saw Jeannie and Marilyn, that's my
sister, for just a few minutes because I had to
change into my army greens for commissioning.
Commissioning was a very impressive ceremony.
General James K. Woolnock, Woolnock, Kornark
Commander, four-star, gave me my commission,
which I had to give back because it was a reserve and
not a regular commission. They'd made a mistake
because I was commissioned as a regular officer.
Jeannie and Marilyn pinned my bars on. My mama and
daddy had the flu and were very sick and didn't
come. I was saluted and gave away a dollar bill,
which, you know, is a tradition. And...
told everybody goodbye and drove to Fort Benning,
Georgia. So I was commissioned, graduated, and
left for Fort Benning on January the 20th. How well
prepared did you believe A&M had made you? How well
prepared were you for what you thought was your
future? Well, yeah, at that time.
What I think A&M did was, and it may have been ROTC
summer camp, tied in, but I was confident, but
never overconfident.
I finished all my Army schools, either the honor
graduate or in the top 1% or 2%. None of them were
hard. Went to airborne school, and I remember I
went to airborne school after ranger school and
the airborne school sergeants were black hats and
they thought they were mean and tough and this one
sergeant is yelling at me and I'm a second
lieutenant and I've been through OBC and ranger
school and I was an honor graduate from ranger
school. And an airborne school physically is a
piece of cake compared to ranger school. And I was
in superb condition, always was. And this
sergeant's yelling at me about something. And he
finally asked me a question or something or
allowed me to speak. And I said, Sarge, I hate to
tell you this, but you're a rookie compared to an
Aggie pisshead. And he had no clue what I was
talking about, but he knew that it was not
favorable. And he got so mad, and he just stormed
off and everything. But, you know, no, I think the
Aggie program and the experience...
You know, just plus my raising. I mean, I was raised
in the woods. I was raised by a grand... You know, my
grandfather just spent a tremendous amount of
time with me. And I was always very confident of my
ability to do physical hand-eye coordination. I
mean, anything like that. I mean, you know, if I
went into a GRE exam, I wasn't ever confident. But
if I was having to do something where... your wits
depended upon it or your calmness or your
decision-making or your ability to accomplish or
overcome an obstacle.
I was just confident without being
overconfident. Did A&M help to build that
confidence? Well, I think it was the whole
program. I was very gifted to have a wonderful
family that kind of... you know, kind of continued
along with A&M. And then I think A&M just because
of... of all the experiences and the traditions
that you put in in such an important period of your
life. And it was very disciplined. I mean, A&M was a
very disciplined place, and I liked that. And so I
think it just fit very well for me. It was one of
those things, like I tell folks, the Army's not for
everybody, but for some people it's perfect. And
A&M's not for everybody, but for some people it's
just perfect. And it was... I was a... I was a rebel
without being a troublemaker. I wasn't a
follower. I would not just do things because I
thought through things. And A&M, the whole
experience lets you figure all that out for
yourself. This Aggie spirit that all of us refer
to, what is it, what makes it, and why is it
important? I saw that... in your paper and I've
been thinking about it because I've read where
some very gifted people have written some really
neat things about what the Aggie spirit means to
them. What it means to me is things like, is the
personal, aspects of things happening like
silver taps where my brother's not an Aggie and he
comes and it's his son and he's in an unbelievable
grieving state and there's something occurs at 8
a.m. that doesn't occur any place else in the world
and he is a non-Aggie, feels it and to this day
you know just it's he talks about it every once in a
while he'll never forget it It's just all the
experiences I get with Bear Pickivance, who's
coming here in September and is a great friend.
He's worked for me twice. I've known him since
1964. Every once in a while, we would be wrestling
with a very difficult issue in the Pacific Ocean
that was political, hot potato. soldier, sailor,
airman, Marines lives at stake. I mean, some tough
issues. And he would grin at me and he says, you
know, if two Aggies can't figure this out, it can't
be figured out. And it would kind of break the ice,
you know, and it was just, you know, and Pat Gamble
was the PACAF commander at the time. And a couple of
times we were in some tough meetings. And there
would be a break and there'd be friction and
everything else and Bear and Pat and I would just
kind of get together in a car and he says, you know,
if three Aggies can't figure this out, it can't be
figured out. And we'd go back into this meeting and
solve what would be a problem for the President of
the United States or the Secretary of Defense or
the Secretary of State and we would solve it. And so
I think the Aggie spirit is just experiences where
you had personal situations happen and it just
permeates. You can't describe it. You can't
necessarily put your finger on it. It's like a lot
of things. You know it when you see it. You feel it.
Is one of the keys that it's inclusive? instead of
exclusive meaning it doesn't matter about your
family's accent. Oh yeah, right. No, because the
You know, I was at a big meeting last Thursday in San
Antonio, and this, you know, I was representing
this group and everything, and this guy who we were
meeting with who was Hispanic, he says, is that an
Aggie ring? And I said, yes, it is. And he said, what
class? I said, 67. And he said, 74. And we saw, and
from then on, it was just wrapping up the meeting,
you know. And has this spirit meant much to you in
your life, you think? Well, yeah, I've always been
proud of being an Aggie. And like during Vietnam,
the Aggies, there was no, to my knowledge, there
was no,
I mean, I've, I've read a lot. I've read Vannevar's
book on Johnson wars, and I've read a lot about the
decision making for Vietnam. And if I were king and
could relive it again, we wouldn't have gotten
involved. But we were involved. Soldiers were
dying. Other schools in the Southwest Conference
were picketing, were having demonstrations. And
if you were in ROTC at Texas University, you
couldn't wear your uniform out of the ROTC
building there at Texas. None of that happened at
A&M.
When Clinton talks about how he agonized over the
Vietnam War, and that was part of his
decision-making on some of the decisions he made,
Coming from A&M, with the traditions of the
Aggies,
whether or not it was a just war, it was America's
war, and Aggies were going to go do their duty to God
and country. They weren't going to have these
intellectual... you know, debates on things, at
least at the time. I mean, there's a time for
debating and there's a time for action. And I was
always proud of A&M, you know, just because it
seemed to have been able to sort through those
things. And then subsequently has done some great
analysis and some great work. And, you know, and as
I think all of us, you know, would say, you know, you
know may have been something that we didn't need
you know communism could have fallen Soviet Union
could have fallen probably without Vietnam we'll
never know but no the whole everything I've
always been very proud to be an Aggie and when
Jeannie decided to come back to College Station or
come to College Station to live I just thought it
was a wonderful fit to be able to come home because
there's a comfort There's a comfort level in this
part of Texas. So you think A&M has been a
significant factor in your life? Yeah.
There's just no doubt about it. I was just turned 18
when I got here. and I left at just turning 22. So
it's that formative stages of your life, and a lot
of bad things can happen. Because there was a lot of
bad things happening at other universities, and
they just weren't happening here. There was
still... you know, a very doing things right,
honorable. All those things were things that
meant something. All right. Now the consultant
question. You've just been selected as a
consultant to A&M's leadership regarding the
future of A&M. What advice would you give A&M to do
and or not to do? Uh... I've given five speeches at
A&M in the last 10 years. And in all five of them, I'm
not sure if they have been positively received by
everyone, but I have gotten letters back from
many. And
what I tell people is you have to watch the balance
of things. And it's just like trying to make the
bonfire bigger every year. I
don't think that's a balanced way of looking at
things. I've been a real proponent of the Parsons
Cavalry. I'm an equestrian. I've really loved
what they've done. But when they were running off
all their women, Well, the equestrian term is a
seat. Does that person have a good seat? Women are
the finest riders there are. My little sister is
the finest equestrian I know. But they had a rites
of passage out there where they had to chew
tobacco. Well, that ran off a bunch of women, and
they lost a bunch of wonderful equestrians. So I
tell the Aggies, I said, You know, your strength
also sometimes is your weakness. Our strength is
our weakness. Our strength is our zealous
love of the school. It's also our weakness. And
we've got to balance life, and you have to balance
your family, your God, your profession, your
school, and you've got to keep things in balance.
And you just can't... You know, we've got liberals
and we've got conservatives, but have you ever
heard of a plane flying with only one wing? Planes
fly because they have two wings. And as life is
tough out there, and the folks that I've seen that
have made the greatest contributions to our
society There was a fervor about them, but there
was a balance in their life. And I said, you know,
that would be my counsel. Yes, darling. Okay,
right. We've got to go to a dinner party here in a
little while. We're about through. We're within
ten minutes. We're about through. If you'll just
lay out my cloak. Okay, if you could make a major
gift, somebody walks up and hands you a check for a
million dollars, but the stipulation is you must
pass it on to A&M, but you decide the use of the
money, what would you want A&M to do with a major
gift if you were the decision maker? Well, because
I have been in programatics, especially the last
15 years, where I've managed large amount of money
uh...
i have some strong feelings about that and what i
would do is is i would give it to the president to use
as he saw fit what happens to us in this world is
we're provided the congress gives department of
defense monies but says generals this is where you
will spend it You will build these ships in my
district, and you will do this, and you will do
that. And so the discretionary funds that the
leadership has at the senior levels is very
limited because you get all this fenced money.
Well, when I watch what's happening at A&M, and I
think of, and I know Ray Bowen, and I greatly
respect him, and I'm sure that I'll respect the
next president, to me what he needs... is the
latitude to make decisions, and he's got a lot of
help. He's got a lot of people to look over his
shoulder. So if I was going to give an endowment, I
would go to the president and say, you know, where
do you need this money? Where is there a need?
Because it may be you know, the Sterling Library
has enough. It may be that this program has enough,
and if you fenced it, that wouldn't help him. And so
I think because I've had, I've been at the end of a
lot of fenced money where I, as a leader, knew where
I needed it, and I couldn't because of legislation
or other regulations put it there, I would want it
unfeathered, you know, to where... where the
leader could, at the time, the guy that's
responsible could put it to the best use. Are there
some A&M related people to whom you feel deep
personal debts of gratitude? Well, I've referred
several times to this captain and now Lieutenant
Colonel Jim Simmons, who is still a wonderful
friend. And when he finished his career in the
military, he, for 20-plus years now, has been
teaching junior ROTC at St. Joe, Missouri. And he
promoted me to major. He was at my brigadier
general's ceremony. promotion ceremony. And
there was a couple of times where I went to him and he
really gave me wonderful advice. And sage advice.
He didn't give me the party line. He figured out
that I was an individual who was a little different
than other people. And I felt always took that
difference into consideration and tried to put a
positive spin on it. I'm not sure what would have, a
couple of times, which way I would have gone, you
know, because it was a great disappointment when I
did not get in vet school. I mean, if your whole life
all you want to do is be a vet, you don't want to be an
engineer, you don't want to be a doctor, you just
want to be a horse doctor. And then all of a sudden
the cards are there and you're not going to be a vet,
at least not in the near term. You know, and Jim
Simmons, Captain, later Lieutenant Colonel Jim
Simmons, was a great friend and confidant and
someone that I could go to. And I'm the kind of guy
that just doesn't bear my soul, you know, wouldn't
bear my soul to many people. I mean, I saw most of
the... you know, most of the problems I solved
myself, you know, and I, and so I didn't seek a lot of
counsel. I thought Dr. Romaine gave me good
counsel. Uh, and, uh, and then, uh, and later Dr.
Wooten, uh, matter of fact, Dr. Wooten helped me
get a very good summer job the summer of 67 in the
crop reporting service that really was, was a, was
a very helpful to me. And he orchestrated that.
And, and, um, You know, and what I always, what I try
to do is it is easy to take care and take interest in
the superstars and to do the disciplinary things
you have to do with the troublemakers. But there's
a huge mass in the middle that doesn't cause any
problems and a lot of them are late bloomers. And a
lot of them are just there. And what I try to do as an
Army officer was to focus on that group in the
middle and to coach, teach, and mentor and try to,
because the superstars are gonna make it without
any help. The troublemakers, you're gonna
discipline according to the Uniform Code of
Military Justice or what are the rules and
regulations. But where you really build the great
teams of teams is in the middle. And I think because
I was in the middle and because some of these guys
figured that out and
gave me good counsel, it provided the role models
for me for 33 years to kind of do the same. Have we
left any topics out that we should have covered?
Let me just check my notes right quick. Because
I've only got one question left. Okay, sir. I told
athlete
Randy Mattson, no bonfire. Wall Street Journal,
security concussions. Oh, I had a third
concussion of my fourth was that as a fish playing
hall hockey, and hall hockey was illegal. And I was
knocked cold on the radiator in dorm 17. And when I
woke up in the clinic, one of my upper class